Bio-Formats 6.12.0 updates (#634)
ome/www.openmicroscopy.org: _posts/2023-02-14-bio-formats-6-12-0.md

---
layout: post
title: Release of Bio-Formats 6.12.0
intro-blurb: The OME team is pleased to announce the release of Bio-Formats 6.12.0
---

Today we are releasing Bio-Formats 6.12.0 with a number of significant changes. Most notably for the developer community you will find that Bio-Formats has now been updated to fully support Java 17.

> Additionally in this release there have been changes to the logging dependencies which will require action from developers who consume Bio-Formats. Bio-Formats previously included a logback dependency which is now marked as optional, this will require developers to directly declare a dependency for a SLF4J binding such as [logback](https://logback.qos.ch/). For further details on the changes to the logging dependencies and links to examples please see the [logging documentation](https://docs.openmicroscopy.org/bio-formats/latest/developers/logging.html) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally in this release there have been changes to the logging dependencies which will require action from developers who consume Bio-Formats. Bio-Formats previously included a logback dependency which is now marked as optional, this will require developers to directly declare a dependency for a SLF4J binding such as [logback](https://logback.qos.ch/). For further details on the changes to the logging dependencies and links to examples please see the [logging documentation](https://bio-formats.readthedocs.io/en/stable/developers/logging.html) page.
```
